X.) Aristotle’s four classical genres are broken down as follows:
A) Tragedy and epic for the dramatic mode, parody and comedy for the narrative mode
b) Tragedy and comedy for the dramatic mode, epic and parody for the narrative mode
C) Tragedy and parody for the dramatic mode, epic and comedy for the narrative mode
D) Epic and parody for the dramatic mode, tragedy and comedy for the narrative mode

X.) Alone in the Dark, is an example of what video game genre?
A) First Person Shooter
B) Real Time Strategy
c) Survival Horror
D) Point and Click Adventure

X.) When Campcom released Resident Evil in 1996, what was the phrase the infamous intro screen read?
A) “Welcome to Death”
B) “Welcome to my playpen”
c) “Welcome to the world of survival Horror”
D) “Welcome to the future of gaming”

X.) What is the definition of Ludology?
A) Study of the Horror Genre
b) Study of Gaming/Video Games
C) Study of Cinema
D) Study of History

X.) Which of the following terms is not considered as 18th century Gothic?
A) French Revolution
B) Matthew Gregory Lewis – The Monk
C) Horace Walpole – Castle of Otranto
d) Bram Stoker – Dracula
E) None of the above

X.) Who rejected the notion that horror is defined by the fearful experience of the audience? That though a primary function is to incite feelings, the emotional experience of the reader is not the objective of literary studies
A) Julia Kristeva
B) H.P Lovecraft
c) Tzvetan Todorov
D) Noel Carrol

X.) In Carl Therrien's essay on Games of Fear, he describes survival horror as featuring a lot of emotional states that novella or cinema can invoke in the viewer. Which of the following is NOT one of the characteristics mentioned?
A) Alarm
b) Disgust
C) Despair
D) Anxiety

X.) According to Therrien, a commonality between Todorov and Carroll’s stances on horror is that they can both be said to hold that it involves ______.
A) The uncanny
B) Dread
C) Monstrosity
d) Revulsion
E) A and C

X.) How do genres and natural sciences differ?
A) The classification of a genre remains more stable over time while natural science classifications are always evolving
B) The classification of a genre is always evolving while natural science classifications remain more stable over time
C) Every new work alters the classification of a genre while scientific classifications are often not altered when a new species is discovered
d) Both B and C
E) None of the above

X.) What game displays a gruesome image of a friend being murdered in order to maximize the startle effect?
A) Resident Evil 6
b) Friday the 13th
C) Soma
D) Luigi's Mansion

X.) Carl Therrien’s article “Games of Fear” talks about a time before the introduction of the gothic novel where certain creatures would populate the folktales of medieval imaginary. Which of the following creatures would NOT have appeared during this era:
A) Succubus
B) Incubus
c) Grim Reaper
D) Imps
E) Harpies

X.) In "Games of Fear" by Carl Therrien, he notes three specific gameplay elements that were distinct to the survival horror genre. The importance of fleeing, scarcity of offensive resources, and:
a) Sanity of the protagonist
B) The use of "jump-scares"
C) High risk/high reward situations
D) Puzzle mechanics

X.) Related to the reading, what strategy is stated that connects cinema horror to shape the atmosphere of horror video games?
A) Its suspenseful cutscenes driving a sense of dread
B) the replayability to overcome the horrific atmosphere
C) The slow pace mechanic thrusting a sense of helplessness
d) A gloomy piece of music forewarning of the upcoming tragedy

X.) ______ horror games differentiate themselves from other horror games due to their emphasis on resource management
A) Capitalist
B) Adventure
c) Survival
D) Neo
E) None of the above

X.) What are the 3 phases of Horror as defined in lecture?
a) Gothic Supernatural, Zombie/Slasher, Torture Porn
B) Germanic Supernatural, Zombie/Slasher, Natural Horror
C) Gothic Supernatural, Found Footage, Natural Horror
D) Germanic Supernatural, Found Footage, Torture Porn

X.) Video games classified under the horror genre are often considered so through their inclusion of important mechanical elements such as:
A) An emphasis on fleeing enemy encounters
B) Protection of the character’s mental state
C) Restricted inventory management
d) All of the above

X.) Which of the following best describe Pinedo's definition of horror?
A) To feel scare
b) Intention to frighten
C) Extreme fear of something/someone
D) exaggerated and irrational fear of something/someone
E) All of the following

X.) According to Noel Carroll, what two traits must a monster possess to produce a feeling of “horror” in the viewer?
A) Repressed and Superstitious
B) Frightening and Disturbing
c) Threatening and Impure
D) Hesitant and Uncanny

X.) Which aspect of a scary video game plays a role in bypassing your conscious part of the mind and tapping into your fight or flight response mode.
A) visuals
B) music/sound effects
C) setting
d) all of the above

X.) Through Todorov, Therrien introduces the idea that fear in games comes from "a hesitation between two potential  explanations: a ______ one and a ______ one."
a) naturalistic, supernatural
B) serious, fantastical
C) boring, exciting
D) safe, terrifying

X.) What Vampires were mentioned in class regarding the origins of Horror Literature?
a) Elizabeth Bathory
B) Arnold Paole
C) Grigori Rasputin
D) Kylo Ren

X.) Which of the following genres of horror video games is known to be constantly compared to cinema?
A) Stealth
B) Shooter
C) Adventure
d) Survival

X.) Which horror started in the 20th century?
a) Torture Porn
B) Werewolves
C) Vampires
D) Frankenstein

X.) The Cthulhu mythos was created and popularized by which popular American Writer from the early 1900’s
A) Alfred Hitchcock
B) Mary Shelly
c) H.P Lovecraft
D) Stephen King

X.) Which of the following horror video games does NOT use the player avatar’s sanity as a gameplay mechanic?
A) Eternal Darkness
b) Diablo
C) Clock Tower
D) Indigo Prophecy
E) None of the above

X.) Which one of these is NOT a phase of 20th century horror?
A) Zombie/Slasher
B) Gothic Supernatural
c) Vampire/Werewolf
D) Torture Porn

X.) In the year 1996, Capcom essentially invented a new genre of video games linked directly with a phrase they coined, what was this genre defining phrase:
A) "Welcome to the terrifying world of survival horror, where nothing is safe"
B) "It's time to go back in history, and face, Japanese Folklore horror!"
C) "Horrors back, and now with bigger guns!"
d) "Welcome to the world of survival horror"
E) "This will terrify you to the core and back, break your mind and soul, psycho horror"

X.) Who believed that the uncanny was a key part to understanding the psychology behind horror?
A) Noël Carroll
B) Julia Kristeva
c) Sigmund Freud
D) Donna J. Haraway
E) Stuart Hall

X.) Which series is considered to be the most relevant example of the fantastic effect in the realm of video games?
a) Silent Hill Gabriel Knight
B) The Lurking Horror
C) Silent Hill
D) Clock Tower

X.) In Carl Therrien's essay on Games of Fear, he claims that, "In spite of an attempt to restrict horror to one or a combination of the three dimensions [of horror].....it appears that these labels have a tendency to become more inclusive than exclusive." What are the three dimensions of horror that he is referring to here?
A) supernatural, survival, slasher
B) fear, hesitation, marvelous
c) uncanny, marvelous, fantastic
D) survival, uncanny, hesitation

X.) In the context of art history what is "the canon"?
A) A Japanese company which produces cameras and its related items.
B) Artillery that launches a projectile.
c) Works of art that are considered to be the highest quality of importance throughout history.
D) A creation that has been given much critical praise, especially one that is considered the greatest work of a person's career.

X.) According to Bernard Perron, what genre of horror game is most often compared to film?
A) Point and click horror
B) Role-playing horror
c) Survival Horror
D) First-person shooter horror

X.) What was the opening line in resident evil
A) welcome to a new era of horror
B) Try not to die
c) Welcome to the world of survival horror
D) Welcome to silent hill

X.) Which of the following is NOT a good method game developer used to make the survivor horror game unsetting?
A) Limited visibility/Point of view restrictions
B) Limited resource/inventory
c) Unbalanced difficulty/bad control
D) unreliable protagonist/ health (mental) measurement

X.) Whose typology of genres has been used as a pretext to dive in the world of horror video games?
A) H. P. Lovecraft
B) Robert Plutchik
c) Tzvetan Todorov
D) J. K. Rowling

X.) What are the two dramatic modes proposed by Aristotle in his system of classical genres?
a) Tragedy and Comedy
B) Epic and Tragedy
C) Comedy and Parody
D) Epic and Parody

X.) According to Mort Castle:  “In 1997, the horror field was emerging from ______/disappearance.
A) eight years
b) a decade-long slump
C) twenty years
D) five months

X.) The study of gaming is called...
a) Ludology
B) Gameology
C) Etiology
D) Limnology

X.) What Survival Horror video game mentioned in Therrien’s “Games of Fear” uses a limited inventory and minimal starting weapon ammunition in order to coax the player into playing more passively or strategically?
A) Silent Hill
B) Carmageddon
c) Resident Evil
D) The Lurking Horror

X.) In the broadest sense, how is the "horror" genre defined in the media?
A) Anything that contains images that can be described as disturbing
b) Anything created with the intent to incite fear
C) Anything with supernatural themes or supernatural imagery
D) Anything containing blood and/or gore

X.) Kuhn defines (i) as what it does, and (ii) as what it is.
A) (i) Genre, (ii) Cultural Instrumentality
B) (i) Genre, (ii) Ludo Narrative
c) (i) Cultural Instrumentality, (ii) Genre
D) (i) Cultural Instrumentality, (ii) Player Agency

X.) According to the article “Games of fear”, which game series influenced the formation and pacing of ‘Resident Evil’?
A) Corpse killer
B) The Dark Eye
c) Alone in the Dark
D) The House of the Dead series

X.) In Carl Therrien’s Games of Fear: A Multi-Faceted Historical Account of the Horror Genre in Video Games, he claims that despite editorial reviews suggesting that the Jack the Ripper games contained horror content, the game was ultimately categorized under this game genre:
A) Role-playing
B) Simulation
C) Action
d) Adventure
E) Strategy

X.) Clock Tower (1995, Human Entertainment) is an example of what category in horror video games?
A) The Fantastic
B) The Marvelous
c) The Uncanny
D) None of the Above

X.) While attempting to categorize horror and fear, Todorov focuses on the idea of the uncanny and how hesitation from the audience reduces their experience of horror, Noel Carrol focuses instead on the ______ to define horror fiction, however both link horror with revulsion.
A) State of “aporia”
b) The theme of “monstrosity”
C) Player gratification.
D) The sphere of human agency.

X.) ______ is regarded to be the first of the "survival horror" genre.
A) Clock Tower
B) Silent Hill
c) Resident Evil
D) Eternal Darkness

X.) What game did Bernard Perron associate with the birth of the “Survival Horror” genre?
A) Resident Evil, 1996
b) Alone in the Dark, 1992
C) Silent Hill, 1999
D) Project Firestart, 1989

X.) What useful aspect is represented by a character in a game experiencing nightmares?
a) Gives a sense of doubt and thus psychological instability by use of framing
B) Bad sleeper
C) Suggests the character is subconsciously scared
D) Helpful in confusing the character

X.) What is the most important connection of adventure games:
A) Killing
B) Team up with other players
c) Finding clues
D) Observing the map

X.) Which of the following are described as classical horror genres constructed from Aristotle's proposed system of imitation and portrayal.
A) Tragedy
B) Comedy for the dramatic mode
C) Epic
D) Parody for the narrative mode
e) All the above

X.) In some horror games, actions such as combat and flight are integrated in a broader system pertaining to the sanity of the protagonist, who is typically defined by a ______ capital in most action games.
a) Health
B) Energy
C) Mana
D) Strength
E) shield

X.) Aristotle proposed a system for defining genres with two modes:
A) Dramatic and Nostalgia
b) Dramatic and Narrative
C) Composition and Narrative
D) Composition and Nostalgia

X.) Which game is the best example of utilizing mechanics where the player must keep track of the character(s) sanity/fear during the game?
A) SCP - Containment Breach (2012)
B) Doom (1993)
C) Soma (2015)
d) Friday the 13th (1985)

X.) Which of the following is not considered one of the 3 phases in horror?
a) Early 18th- Century Gothic-Supernatural
B) Post-WW2/70s/80s Slasher/Zombie Cycle
C) Early 20th- Century Gothic-Supernatural
D) Post-9/11 Torture Porn

X.) The evolution of the horror genre runs parallel to the evolution of the ______ as a whole.
A) Culture
b) Medium
C) Technology
D) Society

X.) What term best describes cosmic horror, and eldritch horror?
A) Science Fiction
B) Supernatural horror
C) Occult Fiction
d) Lovecraftian

X.) The game Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem introduced a new horror aspect into the survival horror genre, this aspect was:
A) Restrictive Inventory
b) Sanity Effects
C) Puzzle Solving
D) First Person Perspective
E) Third Person Perspective

X.) Which game proposed a restrictive inventory system before 1981?
A) The Lurking Horror
B) Resident Evil
c) Haunted House
D) Doom

X.) Choose the correct definition for the term "Pinêdo".
a) Intended to frighten
B) Terror/horror
C) Sacred/profane
D) Uncanny
E) None of the above

X.) Dead Space is heavily influenced by:
A) Splatter films
b) Science fiction horror films
C) Psychological horror films
D) Paranormal horror movies

X.) According to Chad Habela and Ben Kooyman, what distinguishes Horror video games from Horror cinema?
A) The amount of monsters and jump scares can be as many as the developers want
b) The open-ended, expansive narrative trajectories of horror games and (typically) private settings for game consumption
C) Being able to play and customize a character causes the audience to become more invested in that character, making them easier to emotionally manipulate
D) They are not very different and can be considered “Horror Media”

X.) In "Agency Mechanics" by Habel and Kooyman, what specific gameplay element do they note as an example of a "refinement" of an agency mechanic from Dead Space 1 to Dead Space 2?
A) a shift from third person to first person perspective
B) a increase to the damage aliens can do with their weapons
C) the addition of personal spaceships that greatly increased movement speed
d) limiting the effectiveness of weapons within ventilation shafts

X.) Agency has been influentially defined by Janet Murray as:
a) The satisfying power to take meaningful action and see the result of our decisions and choices.
B) The component of the game that gives it any meaning.
C) The ability to control and avatar and manipulate the environment.
D) Methods invoked by players designed for interaction with the game state, thus providing game play.

X.) According to Habel and Kooyman, Clover, who applied Silverman’s thesis to slasher films specifically, argues that the genre is focused on viewer identification with which of the following:
a) The (female) protagonist
B) The (male) protagonist
C) The Killer
D) A and C
E) B and C

X.) Lankoskis argues that a "comprehensive investigation on the role of a player-character in the player experience is ______?
A) Ever-Lasting
B) Extremely Unique
C) dominating the Scene
d) Still Lacking

X.) In the 2008 game “Siren Blood Curse” what innovative mechanic do they use which is referred to the term ‘sightjacking’?
A) Allows the player to switch between FPP and TPP (First/third person perspectivE)
b) Allows the player to see through the eyes of the enemy
C) Allows the player to mark enemies in the area
D) Allows the player to jack up their screen brightness

X.) What is the main strategy to killing Necromorphs in Dead Space?
A) Punching and kicking them
B) Shooting them in the head
c) Removing their appendages
D) Poisoning them with gas

X.) According to Habella and Kooyman, horror video games build on the design strategies of horror film by using ______ in their editing, and disruptions of these therefore create a sudden loss of agency for the player.
A) Quick cuts
b) Continuous takes
C) Canted Angles
D) Muted colours

X.) Krzywinska believes that the connection between player and avatar is ______ by use of a third-person perspective.
A) substantially lowered
B) raised
c) diminished
D) substantially raised

X.) What classic horror film does Richard J. Hand describe as having ‘the most formative influence’ on the Resident Evil series?
A) Psycho
B) Friday the 13th
c) Night of the Living Dead
D) Texas Chainsaw Massacre

X.) The Dead Space franchise allows the player conventional movement within a ______ perspective, by walking and running.
A) first-person
B) second-person
c) third-person
D) restricted

X.) In Habel and Kooyman's article, Agency mechanics: gameplay design in survival horror video games, a 'bounded experience of fear' is defined as:
A) The removal of game mechanics to elicit fear in players of a horror video game
b) The experience of fear within a safe setting
C) The lack of fear experienced by players of horror video games
D) The feeling of helplessness or lack of control experienced by viewers of a horror film

X.) According to Habel and Kooyman in “Agency mechanics: gameplay design in survival horror video games”, games are designed differently from film in that:
A) They are designed for multiple, extended sessions
B) Include expansive participation
C) Are semi-private engagements
d) All of the above

X.) According to Perron, “Extended body genre” is best experienced in which perspective:
A) First Person
b) Third Person
C) Virtual Reality
D) Text-Based

X.) What aspect of horror video games did Tanya Krzywinska focus on in her case studies?
a) The mechanics of agency and control in horror video games
B) The effectiveness of sound design to produce good horror
C) The differences in passiveness between horror films vs. horror video games
D) The importance of responsive controls to engage players
E) None of the above

X.) Survival horror gameplay is highly influenced by horror cinema. Which of the following movies had an influence on the horror survival genre for video games?
a) The Descent
B) Halloween
C) Friday the 13th
D) Videodrome

X.) Which category of horror video game genres does Dead Space belong to?
A) Third-person Action Horror
B) Shooter Horror
C) Stealth Horror
d) Survival Horror

X.) According to Habel & Kooyman, ______ person perspective creates a benign relationship between the player and game character while ______ person perspective diminishes the relationship between the two.
A) Second, First
B) Third, First
C) Third, Second
d) First, Third

X.) Which of the following is not a common motif for Survival Horror games as mentioned in the article on Agency Mechanics by Habel and Kooyman?
A) Lack of Health and Ammunition
B) High Pressure Puzzles
C) Sense of Pressure from Overwhelming Odds
d) Time constraints

X.) Signature mechanics are said to further manage a player’s engagement with their avatar and the game world. These mechanics involve the use of:
A) The environment
B) Cutscenes
C) A goal design combined with techniques borrowed from ﬁlm
d) All the above

X.) The difference between horror games and other media is?
a) The player experiences the story directly through their avatar and ‘agency mechanics’ embedded in the game design.
B) Horror games tried to recreate the same visceral revulsion, subtle moods, and other strategies that cinema had achieved.
C) The screen-subject relations.
D) None of the above.
E) All of the above.

X.) The Dead Space franchise is strongly influenced by ______
A) The tradition of torture horror video games
b) The tradition of survival horror video games
C) The tradition of fantasy horror video games
D) The tradition of thriller horror video games

X.) Who argued that there are "multiple points of entry’ and multiple gazes at work in film," which allow viewers to switch back and forth between sadistic and masochistic points of view?
A) Laura Mulvey
B) Kaja Silverman
c) Elizabeth Cowie
D) Simone de Beauvoir

X.) As ______ of the action we occupy the dual identity of player-character. (Spittle)
A) viewer
B) criticizer
c) controller
D) bystander

X.) Which of the following are NOT considered Therrien’s aspects of survival horror?
A) Protagonist sanity/ psychological monitoring
b) Cinematic gore and terror
C) Flight over fight strategy
D) Scarcity of resources/ restrictive inventory

X.) As Habel and Kooyman describe, in most instances of "Agency mechanics" the player will experience the oscillation between:
a) Empowerment and Disempowerment
B) Fear and Relaxation
C) Happiness and Sadness
D) Immersion and Awareness

X.) Pinedo's description of a "bounded experience of fear" allows a player to feel ______ within a safe setting.
A) Sadism
B) Fear
C) Masochism
D) Terror
e) All of the above

X.) In "Agency mechanics" by Habel and Kooyman, which of the following games uses progressively more sophisticated gameplay mechanics to manage the oscillation between autonomy and control and therefore the gazes that the player experiences?
a) Dead Space
B) Dead by Daylight
C) Darkest Dungeon
D) Don't Starve

X.) In class on Monday, there was a debate discussing whether horror films or horror video games were scarier, what conclusion is the most reasonable?
A) Horror film, due to the passive reception that occurs in viewing
B) Horror video games, due to the balance between agency and loss of control
c) The horror experience lies in the individual and what one brings to the experience; it is subjective
D) none, both horror film and video games are not scary for me due to the safety in which one views/plays them.

X.) What type of cutscene does Krzywinska refer to as "a spectacle which enables catharsis and release on the part of the player"?
A) Grisly Death
b) Pleasurable Death
C) Dismemberment Death
D) Decapitation Death

X.) In Habel and Kooyman, “Agency Mechanics” in Digital Creativity, ______ is listed as one of the common motifs and mechanics of survival horror.
a) Lack of health and ammunition
B) Fluid movement mechanics
C) Low stakes puzzles
D) Cutscenes

X.) Dead Space uses survival horror, and agency mechanics to add a sense of fear and suspense to their game. This is achieved with Necromorphs and how you kill them, what is the most strategic way to take down a Necromorph?
A) Hit them in the head
b) Dismember them
C) Don't kill them, distract them and run away
D) Don't move, they react to movement

X.) Which of the following games strongly influenced the Dead Space franchise?
A) Outlast (2013)
B) Doom (2004)
C) Dead by daylight (2016)
d) Silent Hill (1999)

X.) ______ is what Krzywinska refers to as a spectacle which enables catharsis and release on the part of the player by shifting from a sadistic gaze to a masochistic one.
A) Body Horror
B) Removal of Agency
C) Active Gaze
d) Pleasurable Death

X.) Which is not an example of Agency Mechanics, as outlined by Habel and Kooyman in the “Dead Space” (2008, 2011) series?
A) Limited ability to move three-dimensionally such as in an air duct
b) Using vehicles to move across the map rather than walking
C) Being hung and stuck upside down and forced to shoot enemies
D) Navigating zero gravity scenarios

X.) In the article, the gameplay elements of “Dead Space” increase the agency mechanics which in turn lead to?
a) experience of fear
B) control
C) guilt over lover’s death
D) autonomy

X.) Fill in the blank. 'Agency mechanics' is an effective term to capture a variety of strategies for granting and taking away ______.
A) horror elements
b) player autonomy
C) game resources
D) player movement

X.) According to Chad Habel's article on agency mechanics, horror gaming does which of the following?
A) Narrows the variety of empathetic responses, and simultaneously lowers those responses.
B) Widens the variety of empathetic responses, and simultaneously lowers those responses.
C) Widens the variety of empathetic responses, and simultaneously heightens those responses.
d) Narrows the variety of empathetic responses, and simultaneously heightens those responses.

X.) What is one of the primary disputes that we talked about regarding agency mechanics
a) If agency mechanics creates a more or less effective horror experience than the lack of agency
B) If horror films are scarier than horror games
C) If dead space is a good horror game
D) The degree to which player agency is important to video games as a whole

X.) Elizabeth Cowie suggests that viewers switch between two vantage points while watching a film:
A) bored and interested
B) confused and knowledgeable
c) sadistic and masochistic
D) first-person and third-person

X.) Chad Habel and Ben Kooyman state in their paper Agency Mechanics: Gameplay Design in Survival Horror Video Games that the ______ series and franchise use sophisticated gameplay mechanics to manage the oscillation between autonomy and control and therefore the gazes that the player experiences.
A) Halo
b) Dead Space
C) Resident Evil
D) Silent Hill
E) BioShock

X.) Horror films inspired horror games oscillation between agency and control. Therefore, horror games ______.
A) Provide multiple entry points which gamers can choose between
B) Add plurality of gazes
c) Focusing on direct first- or third-person identification
D) Asking players to identify with an existing character

X.) Which of the following games is an excellent example of using agency mechanics that produce horror responses in players ?
A) Resident Evil
B) Doom
c) Dead Space
D) All of the above

X.) A key element of the player’s interaction with the environment involves ______ and kinesis, abilities which are made possible by the suit (or ‘rig’) that Isaac Clarke wears.
A) Background music
b) Stasis
C) Game effect
D) Game view

X.) What will happen when the player’s sense of control over the game world is severely curtailed?
A) when you knows everything
b) when it becomes difficult to perceive threats
C) After you do research for the game
D) when you use cheat program plug into the game

X.) Pinedo describes horror film and cinema as providing a/an:
A) unreal, escapist environment
B) a new series of experiences in the genre
c) "bounded experience" of fear
D) more enjoyable horror experience

X.) Which Particular Control Protocols did the Ludicine Database not identify as central to the horror video game genre?
A) Flight Mechanics
B) Centrality of Resource Management
c) Exploration
D) Sanity

X.) Which video game is considered the founder of the survival horror genre?
A) Dead Space
B) Amnesia: The Dark Descent
c) Resident Evil
D) Silent Hill
E) Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem

X.) What do horror videogames utilize to make the player empathize and identify with the acting agent that films rarely do?
A) Engaging, descriptive storytelling
B) Generic, relatable lead
c) 1st person viewpoint
D) Music as ambiance

X.) What does the term, “agency mechanics” mean?
a) Strategies for granting and taking away player autonomy
B) Another term for game play mechanics
C) A way of describing how game design structures the interactive experiences
D) The type of narrative that the game demonstrates

X.) What is not an example of an "agency mechanic"?
a) A first-person perspective
B) Oscillation between control and helplessness
C) Participative dimension of gaming
D) Identification with the avatar

X.) Which of the following options fits the benefits of interactive horror games？
a) The interactive dimension of these particular games is organized to intensify and extend the types of emotional and affective experiences offered by the horror film.
B) Increase panic
C) Immersive feeling
D) Players must actively participate in the plot and have almost fine-grained control over their own progress

X.) Who argued that hollywood cinema is structured to privilege the male "gaze"?
a) Laura Mulvey
B) Christian Metz
C) Janet Murray
D) Tanya Kryzwinska

X.) Finding an image horrific, simply because you know it is supposed to be, is an example of operating on what level according to Pinchbeck.
A) the interpretive level
b) the referential level
C) the ludological level
D) the based level

X.) According to the article "Uncanny Factory", Which of the following answer can define "Uncanny horror"
A) Ghosts – appear and disappear
B) When something is close but not exactly the same as what we know, this is where uncanny and terror take place.
c) Little girls represent no threat and vulnerability. When they suddenly become creepy and chase you, this fear becomes even stronger.
D) Super-natural world - sinister and uncontrollable

X.) What first person horror game most heavily influenced the rise of horror let's plays, and horror games from the first person perspective?
A) F.E.A.R
B) SOMA
C) Fatal Frame
d) Amnesia: The Dark Descent
E) Condemned: Criminal Origins

X.) In order to maintain a scary tense environment in an FPS game, the "game needs to shift dynamically to match the increase in power of the ______?"
a) Player
B) Mobs
C) Bosses
D) Non-Playable Characters

X.) What claim made by David Pinchbeck has the 'potential to reduce the emotional distance between world and player'?
a) A first-person perspective, where there is a direct perceptual mapping between avatar and player.
B) A good environment, where the pleasant atmosphere can let the players feel more relaxed.
C) A third-person perspective, where the players can watch and feel other people's feelings.
D) A heart-breaking narrative, where the story can bring all the players together.

X.) The Uncanny Valley Effect is the human's relationship with an object that resembles human-like activity and emotional response to that object. The example of these objects are:
A) 3D animations and models of people
B) Lifelike dolls and toys
C) Robots
d) All of the above

X.) What does CLG stand for?
A) Cranky Little Granny
B) Christmas Lights Gone
c) Creepy Little Girl
D) Classy Loaded Gun
E) Crusty Little Ghost

X.) The essays posits the following argument about FPS in horror:
A) That it’s better than third person for you can see the entire character, and thus more immersive
b) That their nature enables a greater degree of immersion
C) It’s about as good as third person as immersive tool for players
D) That mechanical perspective, whether first or third, is not important

X.) What term is used for when a horror game heightens the tension by using intense or suspenseful music alongside already frightening moments?
a) Stingers
B) Schemata
C) Gestalt
D) High-impact music

X.) According to Dan Pinchbeck’s essay Shock, Horror: First-Person Gaming, Horror, and the Art of Ludic Manipulation, what is the simplest advantage of using horror schema in gameplay?
a) Agents
B) Pinedo
C) The uncanny
D) Automaticity
E) All of the above

X.) What horror aesthetic draws on our schema of the known world?
A) Representational
B) Orchestrational
c) Referential
D) Organizational

X.) In the article by Dan Pinchbeck, he mentions ______ as one of the key means of manipulating the audience in horror films.
A) Frames
B) Synchronization
c) Subversion of expectation of schema
D) Incoming signals

X.) Demons and other more monstrous forms do not belong in the world; they have no interest in ______.
A) natural environment
b) human surroundings
C) human bodies
D) killing people

X.) What is the constitutional element of horror based on Carroll's definition?
A) Impurity
B) Dangerous
C) Monsters
d) A and B
E) A, B, and C

X.) In Dan Pinchbeck's essay on first-person horror gaming, it is suggested that these two elements are necessary for seamless gameplay that focuses the player a game's representational systems:
A) Continuity and narrative.
B) Presence and rewards.
c) Presence and flow.
D) Flow and pacing.

X.) Dan Pinchbeck's Shock Horror: First Person Gaming, Horror, and the Art of Ludic Manipulation describes that a First Person viewpoint has 3 main strengths over third person. Which of these choices is not a strength first person horror games?
A) lack of camera control
B) lack of cutscenes
C) lack of visualized avatars
d) lack of movement control

X.) Which of the following answer is NOT a common method FPS game used to create horror?
A) Limited vision and control
B) common expectation of horror theme (zombie/demon)
C) The transformation from known to the unknown, Blurred the line between real and imagery.
d) messy storyline

X.) In Co-opting Schema as a Gameplay Device: The Advantages of Horror in System Terms, Most FPS games use anthropomorphic agents. This means that the agents used are:
A) Animal like in both appearance and projected behavior
b) Humanoid in both appearance and projected behavior
C) Alien like in both appearance and projected behavior
D) Monster like in both appearance and projected behavior
E) None of the above

X.) First-Person Shooters games cannot offer players ______ as survival horror games.
A) Defining perceptual boundaries
B) A greater degree of immersion
c) The cut-scenes
D) System control over the camera

X.) According to the article “Shock Horror” in Horror Video Games, the author Dan Pinchbeck refers to Heterodiegetic information as:
A) Save screens
B) Quad damage
C) Pop-up instructions
d) All the above

X.) Which description is not a characteristic of the flow state?
a) Higher understanding of the medium in which the content is being experienced
B) Lowering of the significance of the world outside the experience
C) Less attention being paid to the structural act of engaging with a mediated experience
D) More attention paid to the engagement occurring at and affective or psychological level with its content

X.) What does Pinchbeck refer to when he investigates the "schemata" of horror games?
A) The most common game-map layout used by developers
b) Our mental understanding of the patterns seen in horror games
C) The popular usage of mechanical enemies in the game world
D) The "scary materials" adapted from horror films into games

X.) In Pinchbeck's article "Shock, Horror..." he introduces two terms which relate to the psychology behind gameplay mechanics. One of these is presence which is when "the player is focused upon the contents of a system rather than the system itself." Presence's counterpart, which is described as a "state of play where activity is seamless, highly engaging and highly rewarding" is called...
A) Enjoyment
B) Schemata
c) Flow
D) Consciousness

X.) What are frames defined as by Minsky?
a) frames are something that hold stereotypical information about common contexts, allowing us to determine functions from scratch.
B) Generalized mental structures relating to stereotypical patterns of activity.
C) Individual sequences in a video games storied structure.
D) A limiting system that only lets games run at a certain rate, so they don't make the game fuzzy.

X.) In "Shock Horror" by Dan Pinchbeck, which of the following types of games has a great lack of cutscenes?
A) Third-person games
b) First-person games
C) Survival horror games
D) Asymmetrical multiplayer horror games

X.) What is Pinchbeck speaking of in this statement: “______ are generalized mental structures relating to stereotypical patterns of activity”?
A) Gestalts
B) FPS Games
C) Minsky’s Frames
d) Schemata

X.) When considering what we already know of horror which author does not help provide reference and background for us to have an understanding to go off of?
A) King
B) Stoker
c) Follett
D) Lovecraft

X.) What does CLG stand for?
A) Counter Logic Gaming
b) Creepy Little Girl
C) Creepy Looming Ghost
D) Calrissian Lando Glover

X.) Horror is fundamentally Driven by what?
A) Fear and Disgust
B) Disturbing philosophical realizations
c) A Breakdown of Knowledge
D) Dread

X.) Which technique/device is used in film/3rd person survival horror games that is not present in the horror FPS genre?
a) Forced framing/camera angles
B) Plot foreshadowing
C) Ambient noises
D) Chase sequences/scenes

X.)  What reason does Pinchbeck give for why nemeses do not often appear as boss battles?
a) A boss battle would reduce their powerful and mysterious presence
B) The developers worry about making a disappointing final encounter
C) A boss battle would subvert expectations, which is ineffective in creating horror
D) Horror games are not designed with boss battles in mind

X.) Freud's "uncanny" is more accurately translated as:
A) "ghostly" and "otherworldly"
B) "violent" and "unknown"
c) "secretly" and "creepy"
D) "unreal"

X.) According to Kristeva the abject refers to the human reaction to a threatened breakdown in meaning created by the ______?
a) Subject and object
B) Subject and the sublime
C) Subject and mortality
D) Subject and grotesque

X.) What does David Pinchbeck claim has "the potential to reduce the emotional distance between world and player"?
A) a third-person perspective, where the player relate to the avatar
b) a first-person perspective, where there is a direct perceptual mapping between avatar and player
C) a convincing narrative, where the developing story can engage the player
D) a frightening environment, where there is a shared sense of anxiety between avatar and player

X.) ______ are described by Pinchbeck as being a major tool for contributing to the feeling of horror in horror movies and survival horror games.
A) Fast movements
b) Camera angles
C) Gorey Images
D) Tiny weapons

X.) A schema is a general knowledge framework that a person has about a particular topic. Which level(s) of horror takes advantage of our various schemata?
A) The Representational Level
b) The Referential Level
C) The Orchestrational Level
D) Both a and b

X.) Concepts such as the reproductive system, giving birth and vaginal teeth are all associated with what interpretation of monster?
A) CLG (creepy little girl)
B) Demonic possession
C) Body Horror/Grotesque Monsters
d) Monstrous Feminine

X.) First-person games, especially more contemporary examples of the genre, have a far greater lack of ______ than survival horror ones, demonstrating a consistent drive to keep action both flowing and within the control of the free perceptual exploration of the player.
A) uncertainly
b) cutscenes
C) control
D) weakness

X.) According to Pinchbeck's essay, Shock, Horror: First-Person Gaming, Horror, and the Art of Ludic Manipulation, what term would best describe a gamer's preexisting understanding of what a zombie is, and their ability to predict how the zombie will likely act?
A) Agency
b) Schema
C) Genre
D) Diegesis

X.) What is the reason why game developers don't use much of a 3rd person perspective to develop games anymore according to Dan Pinchbeck ?
A) 3rd person perspective are more only find in 3D and VR games
B) 1st person perspective is more suitable for games kids play theses days
c) Lack of system control over camera angles
D) Gamer prefer 1st person perspective over 3rd person perspective
E) None of the above

X.) Which one is not one of the 3 types of fear as defined by Stephen King?
A) terror
B) gross-out
C) horror
d) phobias

X.)  Stephen King defines fear as:
A) That which disgusts us
B) That which threatens us directly
C) A threat without threat
d) All of the above

X.) Gestalts and schemata, when applied to gameplay, suggest that play is based around the generation of templates for input-output relationships between ______ and player.
A) AI
b) System
C) Avatar
D) mechanic

X.) Carroll notes the appearance of monsters is not, in itself, necessarily indicative of the horror genre. It is the ______ between reader, viewer, and player and these monsters.
A) playability
b) relationship
C) focus
D) demonism

X.) According to Pinchbeck, forced camera angles within a horror game are used to:
A) limit player ability
B) cause tension and shock
c) Both A & B
D) Neither A or B

X.) What holiday helps to formalize our understanding and categorizations of stereotypical monsters like vampires, ghouls, and devils as stated in the readings?
A) Day of the Dead
B) Valentine's day
C) Labor Day
d) Halloween

X.) ______ are generalized mental structures relating to stereotypical patterns of activity
a) Schemata
B) Frames
C) Tropes
D) Themes

X.) "[Horror] is fundamentally driven by a breakdown in knowledge, through interstitial creatures and ______ "
A) learning curves
B) effects
C) the element of surprise
d) situations

X.) Pinchbeck’s definition “. . .the synchronization of high-impact music with moments of high tension. . .” refers to
A) Frames
B) Agency Mechanics
c) Stingers
D) Scripts
E) Audio and Narrative Cohesion

X.) The famous "30 seconds of fun" micro-goal/reward structure was coined by:
A) Capcom
B) Ubisoft
c) Bungie
D) CD Projekt

X.) In FPS games, monsters are a popular and useful choice for AI enemy agents because ______ .
A) They are more unpredictable than regular enemy agents.
B) They are more frightening to players more used to fighting other humans.
C) They are cheaper to design because they take fewer hours to render.
d) They are an easy way to bypass ecological validity.

X.) Which of the following is NOT one of the characteristics of (Pinebeck's described) presence and flow states.
A) Lowering of the significance of the world outside the experience.
B) Less attention being paid to the structural act of engaging with a mediated experience.
c) The interpretation of agents as intelligent by the player.
D) More attention paid to engagement occurring at an affective or psychological level with the content.

X.)  According to the article "The Uncanny Factor: Why Little Girls Scare the Shit Out of Us", what is the correct definition of the type of fear called "terror"?
A) That which disgusts us
B) The unnatural, which threatens us directly
c) Which is a sort of threat without threat
D) None of the above

X.) What does Painkiller the game make extensive use of?
A) Parts of dead marines and build cyborgs
b) Demonic monks and nuns, spectral soldiers, witches and undead lunatics
C) zombies with missing jaws, intestines and heads, groaning painfully.
D) Babies crying

X.) Which of the following options better illustrates the effect of sound effects on horror video games?
A) Interactive
B) better than no sound
c) the engine of a gamer’s immersion in the horrific universe
D) The “Magic Cycle”

X.) According to Perron, games engender three kinds of emotions:
A) emotions of lust, fear and class struggle
B) emotions rooted in the fictional world and concerns of that word, fear and class struggle
C) artefact emotion emanating from concerns related to the artefact, emotions rooted in the fictional world and concerns of that word and class struggle
d) artefact emotion emanating from concerns related to the artefact, emotions rooted in the fictional world and concerns of that word and gameplay emotions

X.) While studying World of Warcraft, ______ identified the 5 categories of sound: gamer, allies, enemies, game world and game system.
A) Grimshaw
B) Collins
c) Jorgensen
D) Perron
E) Whalen

X.) Which title is widely considered to be the most influential horror game from the early 2000's to the 2010 period? This game introduced the "over the shoulder perspective".
A) Silent Hill 2
B) Fatal Frame
C) Eternal Dark: Sanity's Requiem
d) Resident Evil 4
E) Dead Space

X.) Which of the following descriptions about the sound in horror games is NOT true?
A) In computer games, sounds contribute to the gamer’s immersion: they construct the mood of the game, and provide information that will be used in gameplay.
B) The functional roles of sounds will be judged with different urgency in different situations even though the sound is exactly the same
C) The gamer produces meaning of sounds as a means of completing their main objective: the survival of their player character.
D) Horror game sound works in a way to elicit specific emotions in the gamer.
e) All of them are true.

X.) Images create exclusively from audio are known as:
A) audioscopic images
B) visual soundscapes
c) audio-viseogenic effects
D) oral-primary visuals

X.) What music do designers choose to lure the gamer into thinking that there are more threats than there actually are?
a) Exploit atonal music which is closer to musique concrete
B) Traditional orchestral
C) Popular music
D) None of the above

X.) What kind of music is typically considered to be used for Horror Video Games to create a scary atmosphere?
a) Atonal music
B) Tonal music
C) Uncanny music
D) Stingers

X.) In the article Listening to Fear by Guillaume Roux-Girard, Karen Collins explains horror games themselves also affect game sound by the means of their:
A) Genre
B) Narrative structure
C) Participatory nature
d) All the above

X.) Arsenault and Perron's "Magic Cycle" is based on these three interconnected spirals:
A) The heuristic spiral of learning, the exploratory spiral, and the hermeneutic spiral
B) The hermeneutic spiral, the allegorical spiral, and the heuristic spiral of gameplay
c) The heuristic spiral of gameplay, the heuristic spiral of narrative, and the hermeneutic spiral
D) The enjoyability spiral, the heuristic spiral, and the hermeneutic spiral

X.) Which of the following represents an example of extra-diegetic sound in a video game?
A) Your avatar walks forward, and you can hear the character's footsteps.
B) You hear the growling of an enemy zombie behind you.
c) Dramatic, orchestral music starts playing as you enter a boss fight.
D) An old decrepit music box you find in a level begins playing creepy music.

X.) What is "Affordances"?
A) Universe of “un-knowledge”
B) Texture / profile
C) Startle effects
d) Information about space, time, enemies, events

X.) According to Roux-Girard, what is created by the gamers previous gaming experiences:
A) an objectifiable system
B) genre
c) the horizon of expectation
D) Sound theory

X.) How does the sound in horror computer games work to the gamers?
A) match the game background
b) namely fear and dread in emotion
C) a part of thesis
D) drag gamers into the game

X.) An enemy grunting after being shot by the player is an example of what type of sound?
A) Gameworld generated
B) Enemy generated
c) Player generated
D) Game system generated

X.) In the article, “listening to fear”, how do horror video games strike fear in the players?
A) Genre
b) Sound
C) Light
D) Mechanics

X.) As defined by Hiuberts and van Tol,  ______ sounds function as ambiance and can also provide information on the spatial game state.
A) Space
B) Zombie
C) Ghost
d) Zone

X.) In video games sounds contribute to the gamer's immersion: by ______ and providing useful information.
A) creating a "IRL" experience with surround sound
b) constructing the mood of the game
C) developing a sense of setting
D) increasing awareness that leads to heightened emotion

X.) According to Collins’s theory, what can be the causes of the limitation of game sound.
a) Economic and technological limitations
B) The lack of creativity under the current industry mode
C) Game sound is generally insignificant in game production
D) The lack of technical expert in the field

X.) Which of these 5 categories is NOT a category of sound generator as defined by Kristine Jørgensen?:
A) Allies.
B) Enemies.
c) NPCs.
D) The game system.

X.) What are the three main components of the ludology model known as the "Magic Cycle"?
A) heuristic spirals of affect, gameplay, and dialogue.
B) heuristic pyramid of gameplay, heuristic pyramid of narrative, and the hermeneutic spiral.
c) heuristic spiral of gameplay, heuristic spiral of narrative, and the hermeneutic spiral.
D) rules, play, and reception.

X.) In Roux-Girard's Listening to Fear, an author by the name of Collins explains that games themselves also effect game sound in 3 different areas of game design. Which 3 areas are responsible for this?
A) Narrative Structure, Participatory Nature, and Difficulty Curve
b) Genre, Narrative Structure, and Participatory Nature
C) Difficulty Curve, Genre, and Narrative Structure
D) Participatory Nature, Difficulty Curve, and Genre

X.) What two questions is a player trying to answer when it comes to sound in gameplay according to Guillaume Roux- Girard?
A) Is the sound important and does the sound scare the player?
B) How loud is the sound and what is making the sound?
C) Where the sound is coming from and how close is the sound?
d) Where the sound is coming from and what is making the sound?

X.) Which one of these is NOT a category for sound generation in a game?
a) the sound system
B) the gamer
C) the gameworld
D) the game system

X.) Which of the following options is not the function of a horror computer video game?
A) It constructs the mood of the game
B) It has the overarching role of supporting a user system
c) It helps people distinguish computer games from their linear audio-visual counterparts.
D) It is supporting the sense of presence in a fictional world

X.) Atonal music is popular in many early horror games and is characterized by:
A) Quiet, mystical music with soft tones
B) Loud, angry music designed to scare
c) Repeated rifts with no clear center
D) Adventure themed looped music to save memory space

X.) The steps “(1) a character presence, (2) an implied offscreen threat, and (3) a disturbing intrusion [often accentuated by a sound burst] into the character’s immediate space” are used to create a ______.
A) Paranoid Effect
B) Gore Effect
C) Monster Effect
d) Startle Effect

X.) In Mark Grimshaw’s Game Sound Technology and Player Interaction: Concepts and Developments, he states that two questions need to be answered regarding sound for the players’ character to survive in a horror video game.  What are these two questions that the gamer must answer?
A) From where does that sound originate?
B) What is the cause of that sound?
C) What is the music contributing to the scenario?
d) A and B
E) All of the above

X.) As Kristine Jorgensen puts it, "While the source is the object that physically (or virtually) produces the sound: the ______ is what causes the event that produces the sound."
A) Monster
B) Player
c) Generator
D) Game

X.) “While the ______ is the object that physically (or virtually) produces the sound: the ______ is what causes the event that produces the sound”
A) Engine, Trigger
B) Trigger, Engine
c) Source, Generator
D) Generator, Source

X.) According to Kristine Jorgensen as referenced in Roux-Girard's Listening to Fear, what is a sound generator?
A) The coding of a game where sounds are built in
b) The cause of the event that generates the sound
C) Diegetic emitters of sound, such as a music box or radio
D) The source of the sound

X.) Which one of the following is not in the 5 categories of sound generators identified by Jorgensen?
A) gamer
B) game system
c) game character
D) allies

X.) In the article "Listening to Fear," the use of sound in horror video games is divided into 5 categories. What best describes the category of "identifying"?
a) the sound of a zombie in your field of vision
B) the sound of your gun reloading
C) the sound of your ability recharging
D) changes in the music

X.) The term "diegetic" refers to...
a) Within the fantasy world
B) Beyond the fantasy world
C) Scared straight
D) The basic functions of game sounds

X.) In the section The (Double) Causality of Sound, Michael Chion explains the effect of "added value" when linking sound to images. These effects of "added value" are later referred to in the paragraph as ______?
A) Audio-logical effects
B) Audio-metric effects
C) Audio-trophic effects
d) Audio-visiogenic effects

X.) What kind of effect contributes to the gamer's immersion in computer games?
A) sense of touch
b) sound
C) taste
D) smell

X.) In computer games, ______ contribute to the gamer’s immersion: they construct the mood of the game, and provide information that will be used in gameplay.
A) image quality
b) sounds
C) game outpost
D) plot

X.) Which of the following is considered a sound function?
A) Temporal
B) Spatial
C) Progression
d) All of the above

X.) What is the main purpose/importance of sound in horror games according to  ?
A) Sound in horror games is one of the most important aspect of video game
b) that sound support game play and created emotions and mood  for the player
C) That sound would have an impact on how players would game
D) Both A and B
E) none of the above

X.) In computer games, sounds contribute to the ______
A) gamer's skills
B) gamer's immersion
C) gamer's technique
D) gamer's sense of presence
e) both b and d

X.) The most important role of gamer generated sound is?
a) Provide usability information to the player
B) Communicate Lore to the player
C) Create tension for the player
D) To provide information on the game state

X.)  According to Roux-Girard's "Listening to Fear", what two questions do gamers try to answer regarding sounds within the game?
A) How the sound occurred?; When did the sound occur?
b) Where did the sound come from?; What caused the sound?
C) Where did the sound come from?; When did the sound occur?
D) When did the sound occur?; What caused the sound?

X.) For Roux-Girard, what is the difference betwixt a generator and a source?
A) A generator is that which is physically creating the sound (e.g., a character screaming) whereas a source is that which is responsible for the sound (e.g., the player opening the inventory).
b) A source is that which is physically creating the sound (e.g., a character screaming) whereas a generator is that which is responsible for the sound (e.g., the player opening the inventory).
C) A generator is the producer of an extra-diegetic sound (e.g., the game’s soundtrack) whereas a source is the producer of a diegetic sound (e.g., an in-game radio playing musiC).
D) A source is the producer of an extra-diegetic sound (e.g., the game’s soundtrack) whereas a generator is the producer of a diegetic sound (e.g., an in-game radio playing musiC).

X.)  Roux-Girard explores five categories of sound generators identified by Kristine Jørgenson. Which of the following is not a category?
A) Enemies
B) The game world
c) Sounds from outside the game
D) The gamer
E) Allies

X.) In “Listening to Fear: A Study of Sound in Horror Computer Games”, the author Guillaume Roux-Girard argues that forewarning is one of the most effective strategies, specifically in order to create ______ through sound and visual cues.
A) Fear
b) Suspense
C) Anger
D) Anxiety

X.) What is the definition of "diegetic"?
a) Sound within the fantasy world of the game
B) Sound outside the fantasy world of the game
C) Having a good diet
D) Horror Music

X.) According to Perron ______ is always external, comprehensible, measurable and apparently material whereas ______ is more imaginative and anticipatory?
A) Fear and Terror
b) Horror and Terror
C) Fear and Horror
D) Horror and Fear

X.) Which of the following is NOT one of the Sound Strategies of Horror Computer Games outlined by Roux-Girard:
A) The startle effect
B) Ambiguity between sound generators
C) The choice of specific sounds
d) The volume of the sounds

X.) According to Roux-Girard, "every sound, while serving gameplay purposes, simultaneously has ______ and ______ functions"
A) Adverse and Distracting
B) Testimonial and Effective
C) Impactful and Theatrical
d) Immersive and Affective

X.) Although they are both audio-visual mediums, what, according to Roux-Girard, distinguishes Video Games from Films the most?
A) creators
B) audiences
C) subject matter
d) gameplay

X.) According to Perron, horror games engender which kinds of emotions?
A) Fictional emotions rooted in a fictional world and concerns addressed by said world
B) Artefact emotions emanating from concerns related to the artefact, as well as stimulus characteristics based on said concerns
C) Gameplay emotions that arise from the gamer’s actions in the game-world and consequent reactions of this world
d) All of the above

X.) Games can invoke a range of different emotions. As Perron puts it, these games can give rise to three emotions. Which of the following is NOT one of the emotions mentioned?
A) Gameplay
B) Fictional
c) Critical
D) Artefact

X.) The Arsenault and Perron model called the "Magic Cycle" is based on 3 interconnected spirals: Heuristic spiral of gameplay and ______
a) hermeneutic spiral
B) teleological spiral
C) dialogical spiral
D) ambient spiral

X.) According to Jørgensen, ______ provide information that the player cannot create on their own and directly connects to the avatar’s current situation.
A) Ècouters
b) System Generated Sounds
C) Heads Up Displays
D) Uncertainties

X.) Which of the following is NOT the gameplay emotions according to Perron?
A) Fictional emotion
b) Logical emotion
C) Artifact emotion
D) Gameplay emotion

X.) According to Perron, which of these emotions do horror games not play on and engender?
A) Fictional emotions which "are rooted in the fictional world and the concerns addressed by that world"
B) Artefact emotion emanating "from concerns related to the artefact, as well as stimulated characteristics based on these concerns"
C) Gameplay emotions "that arise from the gamers action in the game world and consequent reactions of this world"
d) Sound emotions " that comes from the visceral reaction gamers will elicit when shocked by sound or music"

X.) Which element of video games provides most of the information necessary for the gamer's progression in the game while simultaneously causing emotions ranging from surprise to terror?
A) Enemy design
B) Gameplay mechanics
C) Story
d) Sound cues

X.) According to Roux-Girard in Listening to Fear: A Study of Sound in Horror Computer Games, while the ______ is the object that physically produces the sound: the ______ is what causes the the event that produces the sound.
A) Origin; Generator
B) Monster; Gamer
C) Origin; Producer
d) Source; Generator

X.) While all horror computer games are provided with a more or less elaborate fictional setting, in the end, it remains a part of the experience of gameplay. For horror games to be effective ______ mechanics must have been designed with the intent of scaring the gamer.
A) Fundamental
b) Gaming
C) Difficult
D) Punishing

X.) An object that evokes the emotion of ‘art-horror’ must be:
A) Threatening
B) Impure
c) Both A and B
D) None of the above

X.) What is the most important way to make a horrific monster threatening?
a) physically dangerous
B) Morally dangerous
C) Psychologically dangerous
D) Socially dangerous

X.) Noel Carrol uses the example of Dracula to articulate the “particular object of Art-horror”. Which of the following most accurately captures this?
A) The act of thinking of Dracula.
b) The content of the thought of Dracula.
C) Experiencing Dracula directly (e.g., through on-screen presence) .
D) All of the above (i.e., the monster Dracula in its entirety).

X.) What term does Noël Carrol use to describe monsters that are disembodied or in a state of disintegration?
A) Categorical impurity
B) Categorical disembodiment
C) Categorical horror
d) Categorical incompleteness

X.) The author defines monsters as
A) Dangerous and impure
B) Hideous and disgusting
c) Something that should not exist according to the light of contemporary science
D) Inhuman

X.) According to Carrol, what identifies or distinguishes given emotional states?
a) Cognitive elements
B) Physical responses
C) Individual responses
D) Collective responses

X.) Noel Carrol's "Definition of Horror"  describes that 2 evaluative components in 'art horror' come into play when a monster causes the player to feel emotions. The 2 evaluative components are:
A) Horrifying and Impure
b) Threatening and Impure
C) Threatening and Disgusting
D) Horrifying and Disgusting

X.) What is Carrol’s definition of “Qualia”?
A) The sensation of a feeling through touch and taste
b) Emotions have a uniquely discernible flavour which enables its recognition
C) The perception of unique variations of emotions
D) The emotional state solemnly applied to fear and anger

X.) Which of the following options is NOT associated with Gothic Art?
A) elements of rape and incest
B) Damsel in distress
C) Dark and mysterious castles
D) Traditional monsters of western superstition
e) All of the above statements are true

X.) What does Matthew Weise define procedural adaptation as?
A) the linear progression of a plot
B) a game sequel
C) a psychological ludic response
d) a variation of procedural translation

X.) Noel Carrol's chapter "Definition of Horror '' gives Dracula as an example of something that he recognizes as a "threatening and impure prospect, one which gives rise to the ______ of art-horror".
A) emotion
B) suspense
c) fantasy
D) thrill

X.) What is the basis of Noel Carrol's theory of art-horror?
a) Entity-based
B) Physically Horrifying-based
C) Emotionally-based
D) Based on the disgust

X.) An example of categorically incompleteness would be ...?
A) leprechaun
B) Santa
c) werewolf
D) talking cat

X.) Noel Carroll's definition of Art-History requires evaluation of monsters to be both in terms of ______ and ______ ?
A) Horror and Terror
B) Vileness and Evilness
c) Threat and Disgust
D) Noxious and Impure

X.) A Monster is defined as:
a) A being not believed to exist in contemporary science
B) A fictional Creature that doesn't fit into any major family of animals (Mammals, Lizards, etc...)
C) A non-humanoid fictional being
D) An unintelligent being that is not believed to exist in contemporary science

X.) Which of the following is NOT commonly associated with Gothic Art?
A) ghosts, vampires, and werewolves
B) Dark forests and haunted woods
C) Elements of Catholic mythology
d) Otherworldly non-human threats

X.) What does Carroll call stories where much of “their energy is spent constructing a psychologically disturbing event of preternatural origins”?
a) Tales of Dread
B) Campfire Stories
C) Spooky Narratives
D) Hitchcock Horrors

X.) Which of these concepts was NOT considered as being impure in Noel Carrol's Philosophy of Horror?:
A) Hidden incest.
B) Lobsters.
C) Feces and other body fluids.
d) Natural disasters.

X.) Using Descartes’ terms for reality which type does Dracula and other like creations fall under?
a) objective realities
B) formal realities
C) existant realities
D) unfocused realities

X.) Carrol hypothesizes that art horror is an emotional state wherein some non-ordinary physical state of agitation is cause by the thought of:
a) a monster
B) something threatening
C) something impure
D) a sound

X.) Noel Carrol's definition of monsters is ______
a) Something that should not exist according to the light of contemporary science
B) Impure and scary
C) Inhuman
D) An imaginary creature that is typically large, ugly, and frightening

X.) The word "______" derives from the Latin "horrere" - to stand on end (as hair standing on end) or to bristle - and the old French "horrere" - to bristle or to shudder.
a) Horror
B) Comedy
C) Action
D) Drama

X.) Fill in the missing blank: In the section Fantastic Biologies and the Structures of Horrific Imagery, the reading states "in order to be threatening, it is sufficient that the monster be physically ______"
A) Attractive
b) Dangerous
C) Mutilated
D) Strong

X.) For a monster to be art-horrifying it must be both threatening and ______?
a) Impure
B) Diseased
C) Grotesque
D) Undead

X.) What body part is typically associated with horror, including "art-horror?"
a) Hands
B) Arms
C) Severed Heads
D) Eyes

X.) What is cognitive/evaluative theory?
a) An occurrent emotional state is one in which some physically abnormal state of felt agitation has been caused by the subject's cognitive construal and evaluation of his/her situation.
B) Looking at an event that causes an emotional reaction that brings back memories or innate fears that one uses to now evaluate a horrifying situation, and respond thusly.
C) Taking prior information and using it to evaluate what may happen in the future.
D) Looking at a situation and calmly working out a solve to said problem with as little force and push-back as possible

X.) Which of these are NOT related to Gothic Art?
A) Elements of rape and incest
B) Catholic Mythology
C) Dark and Haunted Forests
d) Fairies

X.) According to Noel Carrol, which following option cannot define art-horror?
A) Threatening and impure
B) Danger and impurity
c) Horrifying and ugly
D) None of the above

X.) According to Noel Carrol's definition of art-horror, what makes something "impure" is...
A) It is categorically contradictory, incomplete, or formless.
B) It should not exist according to contemporary science
C) It evokes feelings of revulsion and disgust.
d) All of the above.

X.) Art horror requires two things to be considered art horror (Impurity and threat)
A) Impurity and context
B) Threat and affect
C) Affect and context
d) Impurity and threat

X.) The major components of "art-horror" that make the monsters/creatures horrifying are:
A) Threatening
B) Horrifying
c) Threatening and Impure
D) Horrifying and Impure

X.) In the Philosophy of Horror: Paradoxes of the Heart (1990) by Noel Carrol, she states in respect to art-horror some of the recurring sensations or automatic responses are:
A) muscular contractions and tension
B) cringing and shrinking
C) shuddering and chilling
d) All the above

X.) What is NOT a significant element of Gothic Art?
a) Dark cities, haunted alleyways, and foreboding fields.
B) Damsels in distressed (being chased
C) Coincidences, especially familial
D) Elements of rape and incest

X.) According to Noel Carrol (The Philosophy of Horror: or, Paradoxes of the Heart [excerpt]), demonically possessed characters typically involve the superimposition of which two categorically distinct individuals?
A) The protagonist and antagonist
b) The possessed and possessor
C) The player and the monster
D) The living and the dead
E) The hero and the villain

X.) In "The Philosophy of Horror (1990)" by Noel Carroll, art-horror is a ______ kind.
A) Gothic
B) Natural
C) Narrative
d) Constructed

X.) What are NOT elements of Gothic style?
A) Rib vaults
B) pointed arches
C) flying buttresses
d) Ionic & doric pillars

X.) Bloodborne is a good example of a game that:
a) Has many horror aesthetics such as creatures inspired from Lovecraft
B) Has game mechanics such as tough puzzles and timed events
C) Has many jump scares and moments of tension that keeps the player on edge
D) Has specific sound mechanics that makes the game more frightening

X.) For a non human entity to be "horrifying" they must be ______
A) Threatening
B) Impure
c) Threatening and impure
D) disgusting

X.) "Art-Horror" is categorized by two components:
a) Threatening and Impure
B) Shocking and Beautiful
C) Beautiful and Impure
D) Unknown and Shocking

X.) Carrol argues that the following is part of “emotional states“?
A) What the author’s expectations are for the audience response
B) Verbal display of emotions
c) Cognitive Elements
D) None of the above

X.) Which of the following is NOT an aspect of Gothic Art?
A) traditional western monsters
b) goth teens
C) rape and incest
D) the dark and mysterious
E) angels and demons

X.) According to Noel Carrol, what two characteristics must a monster possess in order for it to be considered horrifying?
a) Threatening & Impure
B) Disgusting & Threatening
C) Impure & Dangerous
D) Dangerous & Disgusting

X.) Who defined agency as “the satisfying power to take meaningful action and see the result of our decisions and choices”
A) Tanya Krzywinska
b) Janet Murray
C) Isabel Pinedo
D) Dan Pinchbeck

X.) Which of these categories is not a part of Noel Carroll’s definition of impure?
A) Categorically Interstitial
B) Incomplete
c) Sacrilegious in nature
D) Formless

X.) Which of these individuals is the author of "Dracula"?
A) Horace Wolpole
b) Bram Stoker
C) Edgar Allan Poe
D) Ann Radcliffe
E) H.P Lovecraft

X.) What is the correct way the author defines monsters?
A) Something that is beautiful and charming.
b) Something that should not exist according to the light of contemporary science
C) Something that has no human emotion.
D) Something that has super power.
